Okay, so now that you have
your project in place here,
you've got your VS code page that we
finished at the end of chapter 4.
That's the one that has the death bar, the
introductory text, the contact text, and
the footer.
What I'd like for you to do now is to take
the work that you've done on the projects,
I would like you to slot it
on into that VS code page.
You probably need to add a gradient
bar in there somewhere, so
you might need to think about where that's
gonna go and how you're gonna fit that in.
And of course, copy over
the relevant parts of the styles.
And then you should wind up with
a webpage that is the complete homepage,
should be completely done by
the time you're done with that.
So as my instructions tell you to do,
go to your CodePen we just finished,
copy the CSS from that
CodePen we just finished,
replace all the CSS that you
have in your document right now.
Just copy and paste that right and
over, erase what's already there.
And then you're gonna wanna take that
project HTML, copy that over, and
plug it in the right location,
and then evaluate.
So what's wonky?
What's missing?
What do you need to tweak?
As I mentioned, the gradient bars,
you may need to think about a little
bit of other styling tweaks.
And then I'll come back and
I'll tell you my answer to the problem.
So go ahead and give that a try.
All right, so hopefully that was a little
easier than what you did the last time
around, when we had to pull in all
of those different code patterns.
This time we only had one to work with,
and hopefully,
that went pretty smoothly for you.
So if you take a look here in your HTML,
it probably looks something like mine.
So you can add those div
with a class of gradients,
you can add as many of those as you need.
You need one at the top of the project,
so you need one at the bottom, so
one in between the intro in the projects,
one between projects and the contact,
those are two gradients
that you should have added.
But the rest of the HTML should be pretty
straightforward, copy paste kinda thing.
And then, of course,
I copied over my CSS from that CodePen.
And when I took a look at the web page,
I saw something like this.
And so why navbar my intro was good, but
my projects are stretching all
the way across the screen.
So we forgot to do something with that,
and
then there's those gradient
bars that I dropped in here.
So how do we going to narrow this up and
get this in line with everything
else that's here on the page?
All we need to do is take a look at what
we've done before, and what we've done
before is we set a max width of 1200
pixels, and we centered it on the page.
So here in our CSS,
what we ought to do then is add,
we're gonna add a style here for
the projects itself.
We'll set the max width of
1200 pixels, and
we'll set the margin to 0 auto.
And once we've done that,
we've saved our document,
then when we go back to our web page,
it should, in theory,
all line up and
look absolutely fabulous, okay?
And if we make the page
a little bit narrower,
we'll run into a couple
breakpoints along the way.
I think, my navigation breaks before my
projects do, there's nothing wrong with
that, that's just a thing And
make the screen a little narrower still,
and then you'll see our projects all
stack very nicely on top of each other.
All right?
So congratulations, you built that
complicated seemingly difficult
looking web page layout, by process of
breaking things into little pieces.
So what I hope you take away
from this is as follows.
So first of all,
take a look at the web page and
identify what is probably
the easiest thing to code on it.
In this case, we started with this little
bit of text right on up here at the top of
the page, because it's just text.
So we started with that, we put it
into CodePen, we formatted it up,
we got our quick win,
which always energizes you.
If you start with a hard thing, then
it feels like everything else is hard,
start with the quick win.
So we formatted that tiny
little bit that felt really,
really good, then we moved on to navbar,
that was the next thing to work on.
And from the navbar,
we learned about accessible icons,
we learned about how to format
something to look like a button.
That was then stuff we could carry into
the footer of the webpage, where we also
had icons, and we could format those to
look like the way that you see it here.
And then we were ready to add on the
contact section, which was also not that
hard, and we had already styled
up the button in the navbar, so
then we could drop that into
the contact section and add on, right?
So, all along the way, we're sort of
doing things and progressive levels
of difficulty and recycling the little
bits of code that we write as we go.
Then the last part that we tackled was the
projects, because it looked complicated,
and it was gonna take a little
bit extra time to work on.
So I hope that this approach,
and particularly,
where we just sort of work
things out in CodePen.
Where we could go really fast and
see what the immediate results were,
we can go faster there, then we can
inside the vs code for this type of work.
And then bring it all back together inside
a vs code to put the page together,
do your final set of twerks, and
you have a project that you
can really truly be proud of.